Project title: Dissagregating Water Flow Data for a Single-family Household Using Supervised Machine Learning

Team Members: Valerie Bevan, John (Jack) Hanley, Vica Otrubina, Zahra Heydari

Dataset description:
To advance understanding of residential water end uses, this work is gathering data from a smart water metering system at a 4-person residence in central Illinois, collecting 1-second resolution flow rate data from February 2018 through September 2021, with a negligible missing data in between (due to power cut or other reasons). The data is collected from a smart water meter installed on the main water supply pipe into the residents’ home. This meter is a custom ally® water meter provided by Sensus and monitors flow rate data at a 1-second resolution in units of gallons per minute (gpm); the analysis results are reported in both L/min and gpm. The meter can read a positive flow rate above 0.11 L/min (0.03 gpm), and the data are reported to 0.04 L/min (0.01 gpm) resolution. The water meter reports data to a computer running a Python script to parse the raw data into a suitable format for further analysis. This data acquisition computer logges the data as a comma separated values (csv files) for each day. These files contain the water flow rate [gpm] and volume [gal] timestamped at each second.
#Water flow data from a single-family household, provided by Dr. Ashlynn Stillwell. This data set was generated using ____, and is in the format of a ___ file. It contains (insert the names of the columns, their descriptions, and units).

Project proposal:
Our team is looking to create a predictive model of water flow data using single-family household flow information. The goal of our dataset analysis is to teach the system to process the incoming water flow data to predict it's origin. By the end of the semester, water flows from showers, sinks, toilets, etc., will be automatically sorted based on their characteristics with a certain degree of uncertainty. For example, the user will be able to see how much water was used for showers, dishwashing, or restrooms in their household over a given time period. Predictive modeling of flow data will eliminate the extremely time consuming process of flow segregation. Such processing is extremely important to the Water-Energy nexus research field of Civil and Environnmental Engineering. Fast sorting of flow information allows researchers to dedicate more of their time to the development of feedback tactics to promote water conservation among industry and consumers.

Plan of action:
- Clean up the raw data to filter out unnecessary criteria.
- Outline the project timeline and set-up reoccuring meetings.
- Separate the flow information for each of the group members to process.


